## Java Face Identification


### Building the project
Make sure you have JDK version 11 installed.

For command line interface:<br/>
1. **clone** this repo and **cd** inside<br/>
```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/pgabriela/javagroup-biometric-identification
$ cd javagroup-biometric-identification
```
2. Build with Gradle<br/>
```bash
$ ./gradlew build
```
<br/>

For IDE, import this project as a Gradle project and build as usual after doing **Step 2** above.<br/>
You may need to run the command below in the root folder for eclipse:<br/>
Windows:
```
$ gradlew.bat eclipse
```

Linux/MacOS:
```bash
$ ./gradlew eclipse
```

<br/>

### Running the program
You need to specify the path to the google credential file as specified below:
```bash
$ GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS="./Java Group Project-fce92f1db01e.json" ./gradlew run
```
To run inside an IDE, add an environment variable **GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS** whose value is the path to the google credential file (included inside this project folder at root level).<br/><br/>

<br/>

### Implementation
Haar Cascade Pretrained model from OpenCV is used to detect faces.<br/>
For Face Embedding, the [OpenFace Pretrained Model](https://cmusatyalab.github.io/openface/models-and-accuracies/#pre-trained-models) (nn4.small2.v1 in torch format) is used.<br/>

The skeleton of the project was generated by Gradle using `gradle init` command.<br/>
All the dependencies installation/download such as for **OpenCV**, **JavaFX**, **Derby DB** are managed by gradle (see **build.gradle** file for dependencies management)<br/>
This project does not use the pure OpenCV. Instead, *javacv* package provided by a wrapper library called [Bytedeco](https://github.com/bytedeco) is used to avoid building OpenCV from source.<br/>
Scene Builder (optional) can be installed separately since it is a standalone program.<br/>
